__URL__:http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/More-analysts-downgrade-Nestles-stock/articleshow/47560840.cms


__HEADLINE__:More analysts downgrade Nestle's stock


__ARTICLE TEXT__:MUMBAI: After falling sharply for three consecutive sessions the  Nestle India stock showed some stability on Friday, closing marginally higher on NSE and a tad lower on BSE. Turnover on the bourses in the stock, however, was more than three times its daily average turnover in the past few months. 
During the week several of the FMCG analysts downgraded the stock, as the controversy about high level of lead in Maggi, Nestle's processed food segment, became a pan-India issue and the company decided to recall its product from the market. Among the domestic brokerages, ICICI Securities drastically cut Nestle's price target to Rs 6,039 from Rs 6,901 earlier,  Kotak Institutional Equities from Rs 6,012 to Rs 5,800 while among the foreign brokerages Barclays cut the stock price to Rs 5,149 from Rs 5,593 earlier. 
Compared to Nestle, which has lost a little over 11% in the last one month, its competitors in some select segments have witnessed their stock prices slide which is in line with the broader market or are a tad higher. In the last one month ITC stock has lost 4.1% while HUL has lost 3.4%, compared to 2.4% loss in the sensex. GSK Consumer, which also competes with Nestle is the processed food space, saw its stock go up marginally during the same period.
Outside India, the stock of the Swiss foods major did not witness any significant volatility. 
According to ICICI Securities, Nestle's brand equity has taken a hit in the wake of the current controversy as Maggi noodles is largely considered a staple snack for children. "We believe Nestle sales from prepared dishes segment would take a beating in the next few quarters. We are revising our estimates downwards and expect YoY de-growth of 6% in sales (previous estimate of 10.3% growth) of prepared dishes segment to Rs 2783.6 crore in 2015," wrote analysts at ICICI Securities in a note on the company. 
In the wake of the controversy about Maggi and the company's slow reactions to assuage concerns of consumers and investors, analysts at Kotak questioned the premium that Nestle India gets for its tag of a 'great company'. The impact of the Maggi recall on Nestle India's current year's "numbers is likely to be moderate-to-substantial, depending on the pace of (1) resolution of issue at hand, and (2) regaining consumer confidence," the analysts wrote. "The former could itself take a good amount of time given the complexity of the issue and separate state-level tests. The latter is a trickier one to call. The historical brand strength of Maggi should work in the company's favor as and when it relaunches the product and tries to regain trust in the market," the report noted.