__URL__:http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/Nestles-70-noodle-market-share-faces-heat/articleshow/47534610.cms


__HEADLINE__:Nestle's 70% noodle market share faces heat


__ARTICLE TEXT__:MUMBAI: The  Maggi MSG-lead controversy is expected to have a cascading effect on the Rs 4,000 crore instant noodles market. Maggi has a 70% share of this market. Considering that the confidence in Nestle's Maggi has taken a beating following reports that certain samples contained MSG and lead, marketers feel consumers could become wary of other noodle brands.
"It's not about Maggi alone. The entire packaged foods market could come under scrutiny. The incident has woken up consumers and they'll be wary of all dehydrated noodles, branded or unbranded,'' said  Harish Bijoor of Harish Bijoor Consults Inc.
READ ALSO: 'You munch harmful additives in other food too'
Noodle trap: 'Just tip of the iceberg' 
Maggi pioneered the concept of packaged instant noodles in India three decades back and despite several brands entering the fray, dominates the space. ITC Foods' Sunfeast Yippee has garnered 18-20% of the market. Hindustan Unilever, which markets Knorr soupy noodles, holds the balance share with other brands.
Other noodle makers don't believe their brands will take a hit. ITC's spokesperson told TOI: "We're confident of the high quality of Yippee given the stringent standards followed in manufacturing and testing our product."
READ ALSO: Maggi now needs to show it cares to win back consumers
Nearly 30% of Nestle India's turnover (approximately Rs 9,000 crore) comes from Maggi. A dent to Maggi's image could cost Nestle-the third largest FMCG company after HUL and Proctor & Gamble - dear. When it comes to food brands, quality plays a crucial role in enabling consumers to make purchase decisions. "Whenever such an issue comes up, consumers wait for clarity. Till that comes, sales get impacted.
It's important for brands to continue the conversation with consumers and stakeholders so trust is maintained," said an FMCG executive. Nalin Khanna, CEO, Vertebrand brand advisory, feels: "At a deeper level, the consumer's trust in the brand and her relationship with it are likely to be hit. At times like this, honesty and clear communication on the part of the brand are critical.
It must publish the test results and ensure corrective steps within a tight time frame." Communication is a good idea feels  Ashish Khazanchi, managing-partner, Enormous Brands, a Mumbai advertising agency. "Maggi is one of the most loved brands in the country which makes it a resilient entity. Doing a media campaign and taking people along may not be a bad idea."