__URL__:http://www.business-standard.com/article/companies/nestle-plans-to-relaunch-india-s-favourite-snack-115070200003_1.html


__HEADLINE__:Nestle plans to relaunch India's favourite snack


__ALT HEADLINE__:In an internal email, the firm has said that it would like to return Maggi to its rightful place


__ARTICLE TEXT__:Nestle India is preparing a blueprint for a possible relaunch of the Maggi instant noodles brand. Industry experts and analysts feel the issue of the recall and ban of Maggi noodles in India is likely to be resolved in the next three to six months.

The Bombay High Court on Tuesday allowed Nestle India to export Maggi noodles but did not lift the ban on its local sales.

Read more from our special coverage on "NESTLE MAGGI CONTROVERSY"Made in India Maggi safe to eat, says UK food regulatorMaggi export relief not significant, say analystsNestle admits it could have averted crisisBombay HC allows Nestle to export Maggi noodles, India ban continuesAfter Maggi, Top Ramen withdrawn from Indian market

To prepare itself in the event it gets a go-ahead from the Bombay HC to resume sales in the country, Nestle India is conducting an internal survey, seeking inputs from employees on how "Maggi could be returned to its rightful position".

In an e-mail to employees recently, Nestle India's Managing Director Etienne Benet said, "We are determined to resolve the Maggi noodles issue in the best possible way. We will return Maggi to its rightful position as 'the most trusted food brand in India'. You have a role to play, too. We know many of you will have suggestions or comments as to how this can be achieved."

Nestle India has created a dedicated web page for the purpose and has tied up with surveymonkey, a website, seeking feedback from employees on how Maggi can be "rebuilt". This survey is not visible to outsiders. Employees have been encouraged to ask questions and raise doubts.

Persons in the know said the idea was to generate a bank of ideas to help the company deal with the current crisis, as well as plot a way forward.

The relaunch is likely to see Nestle India overhaul product packaging, as it seeks to mark a complete break from the past. The company might also change its labelling to ensure it does not breach food safety norms. Labels such as 'No added MSG' could be removed from the new packs, persons in the know said.

In an emailed response, a Nestle India spokesperson said the company would do whatever was needed to bring Maggi back. "But no concrete plan can be drawn on the matter before complete clarity on the issue," the spokesperson added.

Prior to the ban and recall, Nestle India derived 26 per cent of its Rs 9,800 crore anual revenue from Maggi noodles, regarded as the country's best-known comfort food. India is also the largest market for Maggi.  Experts said Nestle India was unlikely to vacate the segment because of the current crisis.
THE BLUEPRINT

Seeks suggestions from employees on how to bring the brand back

May overhaul product packaging as it seeks to mark a complete break from the past

May change labeling to ensure it doesn't breach food safety norms