__URL__:http://www.business-standard.com/article/companies/up-likely-to-file-case-against-nestle-india-115052100934_1.html


__HEADLINE__:UP likely to file case against Nestle India


__ALT HEADLINE__:Nestle recalls 'contaminated' batch of Maggi containing lead, MSG


__ARTICLE TEXT__:Nestle India has recalled a batch of its popular instant noodle brand Maggi from Uttar Pradesh, which were allegedly found contaminated with high lead content.

UP Food Safety and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner P K Singh told Business Standard that Nestle India had already submitted a compliance report regarding the recall of the "affected" batch from the markets in UP.

Besides, the FDA is likely to file a case against Nestle India for the alleged violation of the food safety norms.


"We are considering all the legal aspects of the case and our legal team is currently studying the matter," he said adding there had been precedents of prosecuting such companies in similar episodes.

FDA is preparing for a strong case backed by all the evidences and lab reports.

During a routine and random collection of food samples, the FDA officials had picked up Maggi packets for checking from a big format retail outlet in Barabanki. When the noodle samples were checked in the state-owned food lab located in Gorakhpur, it was found containing high levels of monosodium glutamate (MSG).

When Nestle was communicated about the findings of the lab, the company contested the charges that they had violated any food safety norms, another senior FDA official said.

Later, the Maggi samples were sent to the central lab in Kolkata, which not only reaffirmed the findings of the UP lab about presence of MSG, but it also found lead contents in the noodles; much higher than the permissible levels.

Under the Act, the report of the Kolkata lab is final and there are no further tests requird. Even the courts admit its findings for prosecution in cases of food safety violation, he said.

High lead content is harmful for kidneys. Further, the food companies have to declare any MSG content on the packets and caution about consumption by children below 12 years.

Meanwhile, the FDA is checking other batches of Maggi to verify its contents.