__URL__:http://www.financialexpress.com/article/industry/tech/facebook-looks-to-squeeze-more-out-of-mobiles-with-accelerator-launch/51814/


__HEADLINE__:Facebook looks to squeeze more out of mobiles with Accelerator launch


__ALT HEADLINE__:After introducing the Ads Manager app that allows marketers to create and edit advertisements...


__ARTICLE TEXT__:After introducing the Ads Manager app that allows marketers to create and edit advertisements on the go, Facebook has launched a new programme, Accelerator, to help brands reach consumers on mobile phones.
The programme has been launched for high-growth countries such as India, where the number of consumers using mobile phones for internet access is more than those going online using computers. Speaking to FE over the phone, Mark DArcy, chief creative officer, Facebook Creative Shop,  said: When people talk about critically important markets such as India where brands spend a lot of time thinking about exactly how to connect with their target consumers, mobile is the best device. The challenge was to find a solution that would help brands reach out to their consumers via mobile especially feature phones.
India currently has 935.3 million mobile phone users. Facebook believes it is time to take the mobile device even more seriously.
There are many people who have discovered Facebook on mobile first and this made us realise that if we are not creating stories for mobile-first and mobile-only consumers, we will miss out on a large section of consumers, DArcy said.
Under the new initiative, Facebook will also help brands in generating creative solutions by tying them with various agencies. For instance, it has joined hands with Mumbai-based digital agency WebChutney to launch a mobile- specific campaign for Hindustan Unilevers deodorant brand Axe in India.
Seven individual campaigns have been created so far by Facebooks creative shop for mobile phones and were released in few markets including two in India. The campaigns were further modified keeping in mind a consumers background. For example, it was tweaked for consumers living in smaller towns with feature phones vis-a-vis urban Indian consumers.
Facebook has already signed seven brands for the programme including Durex, Nestle Everyday Whitener, Axe, Samsung, Lifebuoy, Coca-Cola and Virgin Mobile. The social media company has also tied up with these brands agencies for mobile-specific campaigns in different regions. In addition to WebChutney, it has tied up with Publicis India to launch a mobile campaign for Nestles Everyday Whitener.
Facebook has 118 million monthly active users in India. Of these, 106 million users access the social networking website from their mobile device.
Future focus
* Accelerator aims to help brands reach consumers on mobiles. The programme has been launched for high-growth countries like India, where the number of those using mobiles for the internet exceeds those going online using computers
* Facebook will also help brands generate creative solutions by tying them with various agencies. It has joined hands with WebChutney to launch a mobile campaign for HULs deodorant, Axe, in India
* It has already signed seven brands, including Durex, Nestle Everyday Whitener, Axe, Samsung, Lifebuoy, Coca-Cola and Virgin Mobile