__URL__:http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/No-artificial-flavours-in-chocolates-for-Nestle/articleshow/46318066.cms


__HEADLINE__:No artificial flavours in chocolates for Nestle


__ARTICLE TEXT__:NEW DELHI:  Health-conscious consumers in India are not even sparing  junk food, with Nestle India saying it is working on removing artificial flavours from its chocolates here. 
Nestle said it has already stopped using artificial colours in its chocolate and confectionery portfolio in India. "Though there are different constraints in replacing flavours, our application teams are working on it and already some of the premium products including Nestle Extra Smooth Chocolate do not contain artificial flavours," said a Nestle India spokesperson. 
Nestle India, a unit of Switzerland-based Nestle with around $10 billion in sales, sells chocolates such as, Munch, Milkybar and Kit Kat here, apart from beverages and snacks like Nescafe and Maggi. 
India's chocolate sales crossed Rs 10,000 crore in 2014, up 24% a year earlier, according to market research firm Euromonitor. While Mondelez India (formerly Cadbury) dominated the market with around 56% share, Nestle took the second spot with 17% share. Given that India's per capita chocolate consumption is lowest among emerging markets, it offers a huge potential for growth to chocolate makers. 
However, Mondelez, the maker of Oreo and Cadbury Dairy Milk, made no commitment regarding artificial ingredients in some of its products. Though its bestsellers such as, Dairy Milk (India's number one chocolate brand) and Bournville carry no artificial colours, when asked about others, a Mondelez India spokesperson said, "All food colours we use are approved by appropriate regulatory agencies. Our foods are clearly labeled for consumers to refer to it." 
On the other hand, the world's biggest chocolate and candy maker Mars, which sells brands such as, Snickers, Bounty and Twix here, said it uses no artificial colours and flavours in its chocolates. 
The clamour among Indian consumers for healthy products has been steadily increasing with burger chain McDonald's announcing earlier this month that it has cut salts and calories from its burgers and fries here. Many top FMCG players such as, PepsiCo have also tried to gain traction in the healthy-alternative category with their range of baked crackers and chips.